docs: code reviews (#56)
VGVentures/very_good_engineering: src/content/docs/development/code_reviews.md

Reviewer: I'm not convinced about the naming "development" for this section. I think makes more sense call it directly code_review as well

---
title: Code Reviews
description: Code reviews best practices
---

Code reviews are an integral part of any high-quality software development workflow. Whether you're a reviewer or an author, following good practices will improve the team's productivity and code quality while ensuring a smoother development flow.
Writing clean and readable code, preparing code for review, conducting thorough and effective code reviews, and using tools to automate parts of the process, are key points to keep a healthy codebase.

## Consider the review when writing code

When writing code it is essential to consider the review process right from the start. Code that’s designed with the reviewer in mind results in more efficient and productive code reviews, ultimately speeding up the development lifecycle.

> - Prioritize Clean and Readable Code: Adopting consistent coding styles and best practices helps to ensure that everyone on the team can easily understand and maintain each other's code. It also streamlines onboarding for new team members and enhances collaboration across the board.

Reviewer 2: Keep the words lower case to stay consistent with the other points.
```suggestion
- Prioritize clean and readable code: Adopting consistent coding styles and best practices helps to ensure that everyone on the team can easily understand and maintain each other's code. It also streamlines onboarding for new team members and enhances collaboration across the board.
```

- Keep PRs small and focused: Small PRs reduce review complexity, allow for faster feedback, and prevent blockers from piling up in the review pipeline.
- Incorporate review time in planning: The time it takes for your code to be reviewed, feedback to be incorporated, and any revisions to be made can have a huge impact on a task's overall timeline. Accurately accounting for this in your task estimations ensures more realistic deadlines and helps prevent bottlenecks.

## Preparing Code for Review

As an author, preparing for code review doesn’t only mean writing clean and maintainable code, but also providing context for reviewers to quickly understand what your code is doing.

> Writing clear and comprehensive commit messages and adding relevant documentation and comments is particularly helpful when dealing with complex logic, as it gives reviewers additional insight and helps them follow your thought process.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Split this sentence up to make it more readable.
```suggestion
Writing clear and comprehensive commit messages, along with relevant documentation and comments, is especially valuable when working with complex logic. It provides reviewers with deeper insights and makes it easier for them to understand your thought process.
```

By adhering to these practices, you can create a code review culture that improves the code while fostering collaboration, mutual respect, and growth within the team.

## Collaboration and Communication

Good collaboration in code reviews starts before the code is written by anticipating complex changes or implementations and engaging the team in discussions early in the process. By aligning on the approach upfront, reviews become smoother and more efficient.

The actual code review also goes beyond pointing out errors; it requires open communication and empathy. When providing feedback, focus on constructive and actionable comments that help the author understand the problem and how to address it.

## Tools and Automation in Code Reviews

Automation plays a key role in making code reviews more efficient and consistent. By integrating linters and static analysis tools, teams can enforce coding standards and catch errors automatically, allowing reviewers to focus more on logic and architecture.

> At Very Good Ventures, we use our open source analysis tool [`very_good_analysis`](https://github.com/VeryGoodOpenSource/very_good_analysis). Very good analysis is a lint library heavily inspired by [`flutter_lints`](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_lints) and [`pedantic`](https://pub.dev/packages/pedantic) (although it is deprecated now), but has a stricter set of lint rules. We believe these linting rules create a healthier, more scalable codebase.

Reviewer: I would avoid describing Very Good Analysis, and just simply redirecting to the repository or pub.dev
